feat: added release channel guide for following canary & diagram (#78)
graphops/docs: docs/launchpad/release-channels.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Release Channels

Due to the intricate nature of managing indexing operations for multiple blockchains and their associated dependencies, the Launchpad project is a complex system with numerous interdependencies. 

For a reminder of the various components within Launchpad and their intricate connections, we recommend revisiting our [Intro](intro.md).

> This guide offers a comprehensive walkthrough, outlining the steps, automated and manual, required to introduce a new application, ie. Erigon, into the 'launchpad-charts' repository as a **canary** release and ultimately transitioning it to a **stable** state within its designated 'launchpad-namespace,' such as Ethereum. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide offers a comprehensive walkthrough, outlining the steps, automated and manual, required to introduce a new version release of an application, ie. Erigon, into the 'launchpad-charts' repository as a **canary** release and ultimately transitioning it to a **stable** state within its designated 'launchpad-namespace,' such as Ethereum. 
```

The diagram below provides a visual representation illustrating the interdependence and impact of various components and workflows.

![Release Channels Flow](/img/launchpad-release-channels.svg)

# From new version to `launchpad-namespaces` stable

Below you can find a more comprehensive breakdown of the process, divided into automated workflows within launchpad-charts and launchpad-namespaces, as well as manual operator steps. This process guides the transition of a new application version from the initial launchpad-charts canary release to its eventual stability within the corresponding launchpad-namespace. For this walkthrough we will use Erigon as an example.

**launchpad-charts** 

>   - Bot watches [Erigon tags](https://github.com/ledgerwatch/erigon/tags) and as a new version is published it opens a PR into [`launchpad-charts/charts/erigon` ](https://github.com/graphops/launchpad-charts/pull/133)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On each run, bot looks-up [Erigon tags](https://github.com/ledgerwatch/erigon/tags) and upon finding a new version, opens a PR into [`launchpad-charts/charts/erigon` ](https://github.com/graphops/launchpad-charts/pull/133)
```

  - The new PR triggers a workflow that publishes a new [`pre-release`](https://github.com/graphops/launchpad-charts/releases/tag/erigon-0.8.1-canary.1) into the repo.
  - Another workflow runs and adds the newly released `canary` chart to the `canary` Helm repo index

**launchpad-namespaces** 

>   - Bot sees new chart release and pushes update branch and opens a [new PR to namespaces](https://github.com/graphops/launchpad-namespaces/pull/38)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On each run, bot checks for new chart releases and upon finding so, pushes an update branch and opens a [new PR to namespaces](https://github.com/graphops/launchpad-namespaces/pull/38)
```

>   - Bot runs again, and auto-merges the PR to create a tag, triggers workflow to create a release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Bot runs again, auto-merges the PR and creates a tag
```

Reviewer: I decided to not trigger creating a pre-release for namespaces given that, contrary to the charts, we do not need releases for "software distribution". The only purpose would be release notes, which aren't working all that great because of the open git-cliff bug. As such, thought we could skip those and just do the tag for canaries?
It's easy to add that trigger to the workflow, if that's the decision (and then add back that step here).

Author: this makes sense

  - Workflow runs, updates semver tags

**operator**
  - Tests the new `canary` chart release to verify it is working properly, if it is adds commit to PR to set the `stable` chart release version

>   - Updates their helmfile reference to point at new namespace reference and runs changes against `eth-goerli` namespace using `task releases:apply -- eth-goerli`

Author: I think even though we internally decided to test on `eth-goerli-canary` first for the purposes of this we should keep it simple with `eth-goerli` - signaling to users that we test canary releases on testnets first before publishing
